Bobby Brummel
MIS 207

  There are many different and distinct kinds of programming languages that business’s incorporate into their daily involvements in order to reach their potential as a business.  Business can use programming in their operations for a number of different explanations.  For instance you could use them for web development, data manipulation and analysis, obtaining your database, for report generators, GUI creators, and these are just a few reasons a business may use programming.  I few that I will discuss in this paper are about Python and SQL.  These two languages are different in not only what they can do for you but as well as how you actually write in their language. 
	First, Python, is a general purpose programming language that is a bit more advanced to use than some of the other programming languages.  Its wide range of tasks that you can use it for is one of the great things about Python, it can clear programs from either a large or small scale.  Also in using Python you can express your code in fewer lines which, makes it much easier to read and takes less time to write or edit.  Python has been citied to be in many different aspects of business’s, which includes web application, information security, software products, data analysis and even artificial intelligence.  A few of the large corporations that use Python include Google, Yahoo!, and NASA.  However many smaller organization have a need to use Python as well.  Since 2008, Python has been in the top 8 for most popular programing languages used.  So as you can see, Python can is a very versatile language that can be used in many ways.
  Next is SQL or Structured Query Language.  SQL is a programming language that is designed specifically for managing data held in a relational database management system.  SQL was made in the 1970s by IBM and since then has grown to become I very high used programming language.  Overall, SQL is conceptually much easier to learn and conquer than Python.  Business’s use SQL solely for retrieving data from their databases, so basically SQL is the means between raw data about the company and can turning that into essential information a business and use. SQL has been very important in the business world today, all different scales of companies and business use SQL today and have found it very helpful.
  Here were just two examples of programming languages that are used in the business world today.  Although there are a lot of different types of languages that are used for different reason.  Yet, SQL and Python have become two of the more commonly used and talked about languages today for a number of good reasons.
